Supporting files are 
org.javaiw.swing - Frame1.java + MyJFrame1.java //I have commented out entire two files to prevent general errors

inside package org.javaiw.net: (at 13th min)
DemoServer.java
DeomClient.java

---------------------
Starting with Network Programming

Terminologies:

When two things communicate, there are different types of protocols. Eg: Transport layer(TCP), application layer
We are able to see screen this is Tellnet protocol, behind the scene TCPIP works so Tellnet uses TCP behind the scene.

On transport layer we have two options: TCP and UDP(User datatype protocol)

TCP is reliable. Data transport using IP packets like packet1, packet2, packet3. When receiver receives packet, it sends acknowledgement to sender
that data has been received. Sender sees acknowledgement and realized that receiver did not receive something, then sender resends that packet.
And also in correct form, as such, without any attenuation. Very reliable and accurate, so used in texting. 
In TCP one is called server, other is called client. Eg of TCP: FTP, Tellnet

UDP is less reliable. Sends with datagram packets (not IP packets). Send in sequence (1, 2, 3,...) but sender does not care if reciever got them.
Reciever gets erratic, some packets are lost. But sender does not care, senders duty was to dispatch as soon as possible. 
UDP is superfast so used in Video and Images

Every service has its number. Eg: HTTP has number 80, FTP has 27. 
Likewise every application layer protocol has a number. We will create applications using TCP, we will have port number. 
Port number can be from 1 to 9999. Whatever server we create would have a port number. 
First 1024 numbers are reserved for services like FTP, Tellnet. But for customize service, we should give from 1024 to 9999. Now limit is upto 99999. 

Eg: Columbia is server and Sanket is consumer
Server socket means you are service provider. Only socket means you are service consumer. 
When consumer(Sanket) creates socket, it askes two questions: Which computer to connect and what is the port number. 
So consumer sockets send request to server socket to connect. 
Server Columbia receives the request to connect. When server accepts the request, a socket is created on server. That socket is in name of Sanket.  
Whatever Sanket writes in his output stream, it will reach Columbia's input stream and vice versa.
Every socket has a output stream and input stream. 



Important command line command:
netstat -a 
It is used to show all active connections i.e. the ports that are acting as both
server adn established.



HW: just redo everything of video
Can try: use 2 computers and try to connect from one to another. Use server of one and program of another. 





















