Supporting files are:
Web1
Web2
Server > Tomcat 8
--------------
Everything must be run in JavaEE

Java EE (Advanced):

Many frameworks for web development in java. Web Applications, web server and web client: 
Web Client is our browser. FB, yahoo are not web client. Because when I open 2 different browers, server counts them as different clients
Web Server is host for web applications. Place where web application resides.

Protocol for web is http (hyper text transfer protocol): how the server and browser will communicate with each other. 
Programmers perspective: Web Server - any program capable of understanding http request and capable of sending http responses to the client is web server.
Web browser - program capable of sending http request and capable of understanding http responses. 
Browser must be able to interpret html

Intro to http, http request types (7 types):
Web server contains static and dynamic webpages. 
Static are created only using HTML, don't have mind. Eg: Aajtak, NDTV all have same news
Dynamic pages: Gmail after login, fb after login, they are dynamic page as content are different depending on the user. 
Dynamic pages are usually created using some server side languages like java, .net, PHP or Ruby

types of request
GET: Client asks server to get something
POST: Submittting a form. Only send info to server. 
PUT: Other ways a client can send info to server wrapped in the body of the request. It is not in shape of web form
DELETE: 
HEAD: Server receives request with a header (eg: courier contains my address on envelop, this info is head)
OPTIONS: 
TRACE

98% of time GET and POST are used


response
1XX : informational (server is undergoing repair work, upgradation)
2XX : success 200, 202 (client asks for a page, server sends that page. response in header would be 200)
3XX : redirection 301, 302. Client sends request. After that server realizes that it cannot respond to that request. 
4XX : client error 404. If client asks for page abc, but the pages are named a, b, c and no page is named abc. This is client error. 
5XX : server error (client sends request to server, server tries to cater the request but server's java page has some exception, it will give 503. 
It is servers fault)

Google type: gmail.com
we get response from account.google.com. It is example of redirection(3XX)
301 is temporary redirection. 302 is permanent redirection


SERVLET: Servlet is a Java program which resides on a web server.
It gets input from client browser. Client sends request, servlet reads the request, processes the input and sends output to client. 
It has dynamic logic on web applications. 

LIFE CYCLE: Every servlet has lifecycle. Its lifecycle has three functions:

1. init: servlet is in directory and is not of any use to me. When client requests, servlet is called into the server. 
When servlet loads into the container, reads through some files, so create a file reader or file input stream for those files
Needs network connection for network service

2. service(request, response) recieves the request, sends the response. 

3. destroy: opposite of init, everything is done, close the computer, closes all diaries and destroy. 


GenericServlet(c) implements Servlet


-----
HttpServlet extends GenericServlet
HttpServlet defines seperate functions for all types of requests

doGet
doPost
doPut
doHead
doDelete


Important: Installed TOMCAT 8.0.36  from http://tomcat.apache.org/download-80.cgi
by watching video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLgquZ2FiuQ

Problems:
Tomcat 8 and Oracle 11G have port conflict. Oracle 11G uses 8080. So for Tomcat8 specified a new port like 8085

Changed OracleTNSListenere port to port number 8010 on August 7, 2016. Using steps given on: 
http://sudeepkumarkamalasanankp.blogspot.com/   Went to sqlplus nolog, username: system, password: you know 
Used command: Exec DBMS_XDB.SETHTTPPORT(8010);





How to check if port is free and which service is using it: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/788348/how-do-i-free-my-port-80-on-localhost-windows
I followed these steps:
type netstat -ano in command line. This will give port number and corresponding PID. Note PID number, it is important
That will show you the PID of the process that is listening on port 80. 
After that, open the Task Manager -> Processes tab.
Right click CPU and enable PID column and you will see the name of the process listening on port 80. 
Here it was OracleTNSListener

Follow all instructions on that video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kLgquZ2FiuQ

Eclipse after starting tomcat server:
Go to file > New dynamic web project > Name it as Web1 > Use Dynamic web module version 3.1 > Next > Check mark Generate web.xml deployment descriptor
Go to file > New dynamic web project > Name it as Web2 > Use Dynamic web module version 2.5 > Next > Generate web.xml deployment descriptor is already check marked because it is old web module

Go to WEb1 > Right click > New > Servlet > Fill Class Name as W1, Java package as org.javaiw > Next > Next > uncheck doPost, uncheck Constructors from superclass > Finish

role of xml is minimized in new Java8. In java 6 xml used to map servlet but in java 8 it is not required. 
From java ee 7 itself we started using annotation @override sth sth and it saves a lot of xml code. Things becamse lot easy from java 7. 
Thats why we use Java 7 or later because we have to write very less xml code. 






