Relevant code is in:
java730 > src > org.javaiw.GUI > MyFrames.java and MyFrames1.java

GUI:
Supporting files are: MyFrame.java, MyFrames.java, MyCalculator.java

Import package AWT: Abstract Window Toolkit

At top of hierarchy we have a class called component

Component is inherited by: Lable, Textfield, Text Area, Choice, Button, Menu, Scrollbar, MenuItem…
Container class inherits component. It is special type of Component, which can further add component. 

Container class is inherited by Panel, Window and Canvas
Panel is inherited by Applet
Window is inherited by Frame. Eclipse is Frame in terms of Java and not a window. 
Window only has close button. The one which has maximise, minimise and close is subclass of window called Frame. 
Panel: Package Explorer is one panel. Next to it is another (in which we write code). Another one is the one that has Console, Problems etc. 
Panel cannot exist by itself, it can exist inside window, frame or applet.
Applet is type of Panel  (inherits class Panel), but it does not have border. 
Panel does not contain minimize, maximize or close button.
Applet can be embedded into webpage, an html page. Within html page we can insert images, text, just like that we can insert applet. Applet is java class which cab be embedded into webpage and run into my browser. It does not run on JVM, it runs in your browser. 


We will create a frame and try to put some GUI components and see how it works. 
New package: org.javaiw.GUI

To do GUI programming in Eclipse download a tool. I googled and followed instructions as suggested here:
http://download.eclipse.org/windowbuilder/WB/integration/4.4/


AWT builder might not be installed so lets build it manually:
Go to org.javaiw.GUI. Right click and create new class named MyFrame. Add superclass named java.awt.Frame. Click Browse. Click ok. 

Four major types of layout:
Flow layout: from left to right, then top to bottom
Border layout: Divides container into five zones: East, West, North, South and Center
Grid Layout: Allows to create matrix (4*5 = 20 elements)
Null Layout: There is no system of positioning. We will define which element to put where

















